in the royal chamber
the queen has yet to restart her normal
duties
before her journey she stopped egg
production in order to slim down
and make traveling easier
now like a virgin queen she produces a
special scent
that attracts winged male ants who fly
in from other nests
the male is also enormous on a similar
scale to the queen
the scents she produces are irresistible
just a few molecules will grab a male's
attention
he searches for a way into the nest
but a guard patrol has found him and at
first the other ants see him as food
he's actually in mortal danger
the army smothers him as if he were prey
but their intentions falter
he also produces sense to demonstrate
his fitness to be consort
if he passes muster he'll be accepted if
he doesn't
he'll be for the chop they try to clip
his wings so he'll fit through the nest
entrance
but he co-operates using spikes at the
end of his abdomen
he pulls one off himself
nothing is wasted even a wing has some
nutritional value
the rest of the workers take him into
the nest
he has their support at least for the
time being
he's on probation
until he actually mates with the queen
he could still be attacked
another wing is removed
[Music]
he'll soon be presentable for his
audience with the queen
it's day five in the new territory
there's no nuptial flight
instead the queen's new consort is
guided directly to the royal chamber
he's not the first consort to the queen
and he probably won't be the last
driver and queens are for ants unusually
promiscuous
he'll be one of many suitors she'll
entertain during her lifetime
his job done he retires from the royal
chamber
and dies a short but productive life
for he'll father several million new ads
with hungry mouths